# Crash-Course-Measurement-STAN

## Introduction
Political scientists are often interested in explaining concepts that are difficult or impossible to observe. Examples of unobservable concepts include political knowledge, political ideology, democracy, respect for human rights, or inequality. Even concepts that are based on directly observable information such as the number of individuals that reside in a state, the number of individuals killed during a conflict, or the level of economic output are often not easily observed. A key challenge for political scientists and social scientists generally, is creating models that can measure these concepts while also capturing the uncertainty associated with the processes by which they are measured. 

This course will provide an introduction to measurement models generally with specific focus on Bayesian measurement models and measurement models that make use of text data. The course will emphasize the use of construct validity to assess new and existing measures in applied research. I motivate the development of the models introduced in this class with a discussion of the Bayesian perspective on the relationship between data and model parameters. This perspective is useful because it shifts the burden of validity from the primary source documentation and raw data to the model parameters that bind these diverse pieces of information together.

Though this class serves as an introduction to latent variable modeling specifically and measurement theory more generally, there is a lot of ground to cover and a lot fascinating research being done in political science and elsewhere. There are many articles, working papers, and books that could be on this syllabus that we do not have time to cover. I have tried to include much of this information in the suggested reading sections of this syllabus. We will also talk about much of this material during the final week or two of class.

